As Jehovah's Witnesses, we preach to people wherever we find them.
Today, our literature carts and displays are a common sight all over the world.
But how did public witnessing get started?
We'll explore this story of courage and innovation on this episode of Our History in Motion.
Jesus set the precedent for public witnessing.
He taught in the main streets and along the road.
The Apostle Paul and other first century Christians followed that courageous pattern.
Jehovah's Monoday people follow a similar example.
In the late 1800s, the Bible students, as we were called back then,
published a booklet called The Bible Versus Evolution.
The goal? To distribute over 300,000 copies.
But there was only a small group of Bible students at the time.
How could they distribute that much literature?
The April 15th, 1899 issue of the Watchtower sent out a call.
Volunteers wanted.
The plan? To stand at street corners outside of churches,
distributing the track to anyone interested.
Clergy members were not happy with this.
They even tried to have the publishers arrested for distributing free tracks.
Nonetheless, the Bible students courageously did not give up.
And just one year, over 900,000 tracks were distributed at street corners all across North America and Europe.
Our public witnessing work was just getting started.
In the 1920s, we launched a massive preaching campaign around the publication and public talk series.
Millions now living will never die.
We fought outside the box and tried numerous methods to draw the public's attention.
And it worked.
Over the next several years, we developed even more methods of reaching people.
Brothers and sisters even wore their public witnessing in the form of placards, known as sandwich ports, and magazine bags.
There were information marches, imagine being part of one.
And brother Rutherford, of course, was a shorthand expert.
And whenever you talk to him, he'd always be busy writing.
He would be making notes, fighting them away.
So he was doing that this day.
He ripped it off, and he gave it to me.
He said, what do you think of it?
And it said, religions are snare in their racket.
So I said, that's pretty strong.
As a matter of fact, I said, that's hot.
Well, he said, that's what I meant it to be.
But don't you think it's a big idea?
Now, we're going to have a big information march.
Two days from now, couldn't brother play in the printing, make up some signs, religions are snare in their racket,
and put them on poles, and we'll have them for the parade.
So, all right.
And that's what we did.
And brother Rutherford was also in London at that time.
So he and I led this parade.
This parade was six miles long.
A thousand brothers showed up for the parade.
It really was a spectacle.
And the years that followed, information marches such as these, took place across the world.
In January of 1940, the informant announced the beginning of magazine street work,
with the focus on working the busiest parts of cities.
After that, many became familiar with Jehovah's Witnesses by seeing us offering magazines on streets all over the world.
However, not everyone appreciated our efforts.
In some cases, entire mobs of people would attack our brothers and sisters.
But they courageously pressed forward in the preaching work despite the constant threat of violence.
Their faithful presence and personal interest even led some to change their opinion of Jehovah's Witnesses.
You might even know a brother or sister who found the truth by stopping at a literature display at a university, shopping center, or airport.
A major milestone occurred at the dawn of the 21st century,
when the governing body approved our brothers and friends to begin testing different methods of public witnessing,
including the use of literature cards, which looked much different from what we used today.
After years of success, the governing body continued to make refinements to public witnessing,
including the development of special metropolitan public witnessing.
These changes put us in contact with people we wouldn't have found when working from house to house.
That brings us to today.
Republic witnessing is a key part of our ministry.
Literature cards are so familiar that we've even written a song about them.
But whether you're one of thousands in an information march or just one publisher on a street corner, the goal is the same.
To demonstrate our love for Jehovah and to reach people's hearts.
See you next time on Our History and Motion.